README.md, before:

# OpenWeatherMap Exporter

[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) exporter for the [OpenWeatherMap](https://openweathermap.org/) service.

This requires you to sign up on their website in order to receive a free API key.


## Metrics

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
| `weather_cloudiness_percent` | Cloud cover in percentage |
| `weather_feelslike_celsius` | Current temperature taking human perception into account, in celsius |
| `weather_humidity_percent` | Humidity in percent |
| `weather_pressure_hpa` | Atmospheric pressure in hectopascal |
| `weather_sunrise_timestamp` | Sunrise time as a UNIX timestamp |
| `weather_sunset_timestamp` | Sunset time as a UNIX timestamp |
| `weather_temperature_celsius` | Current temperature in celsius |
| `weather_temperature_max_celsius` | Current maximum temperature in celsius |
| `weather_temperature_min_celsius` | Current minimum temperature in celsius |
| `weather_up` | Whether the metrics can be collected |
| `weather_visibility_meters` | Visibility in meters |
| `weather_winddirection_degrees` | Wind direction in degrees |
| `weather_windspeed_mps` | Wind speed in meters per second |

All metrics with the exception of `weather_up` has the following labels with information about the location the metric is reported for:

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
| `location_id` | OpenWeatherMap location ID |
| `location_name` | Name of the location |
| `location_country` | 2 letter country code |
| `latitude` | Latitude |
| `longitude` | Longitude |


## Building and running

If you have [Go](https://golang.org/) installed you can download and build the exporter with:

    go get github.com/Tenzer/openweathermap-exporter

The following configuration flags are available:

    $ openweathermap-exporter -help
    Usage of openweathermap-exporter:
      -apikey string
            API key for OpenWeatherMap (required)
      -listen-address string
            Hostname and port to listen on (default "localhost:9755")
      -location-ids string
            Comma separated list of location IDs to fetch weather for (required)

You can look up the location IDs on the [OpenWeatherMap website](https://openweathermap.org/find).


## Note

The exporter makes an API request to OpenWeatherMap every time the `/metrics` endpoint is requested.
This allows you to control how often the data is fetched from them.
Be aware that they [specifically say](https://openweathermap.org/appid#work) that weather data isn't updated more often than every 10 minutes,
so it likely won't make sense to request it more often than that.

Commit message:

Add caching of the OpenWeatherMap API responses
This means Prometheus can scrape the exporter more often than every 10 minutes
without making unnecessary requests to OpenWeatherMap.

Prometheus by default deems a metric to be stale if it hasn't received data for
it for 5 minutes, which causes a problem if the exporter is only scraped every
10 minutes.

README.md, after:

# OpenWeatherMap Exporter

[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) exporter for the [OpenWeatherMap](https://openweathermap.org/) service.

This requires you to sign up on their website in order to receive a free API key.


## Metrics

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
| `weather_cloudiness_percent` | Cloud cover in percentage |
| `weather_feelslike_celsius` | Current temperature taking human perception into account, in celsius |
| `weather_humidity_percent` | Humidity in percent |
| `weather_pressure_hpa` | Atmospheric pressure in hectopascal |
| `weather_sunrise_timestamp` | Sunrise time as a UNIX timestamp |
| `weather_sunset_timestamp` | Sunset time as a UNIX timestamp |
| `weather_temperature_celsius` | Current temperature in celsius |
| `weather_temperature_max_celsius` | Current maximum temperature in celsius |
| `weather_temperature_min_celsius` | Current minimum temperature in celsius |
| `weather_up` | Whether the metrics can be collected |
| `weather_visibility_meters` | Visibility in meters |
| `weather_winddirection_degrees` | Wind direction in degrees |
| `weather_windspeed_mps` | Wind speed in meters per second |

All metrics with the exception of `weather_up` has the following labels with information about the location the metric is reported for:

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
| `location_id` | OpenWeatherMap location ID |
| `location_name` | Name of the location |
| `location_country` | 2 letter country code |
| `latitude` | Latitude |
| `longitude` | Longitude |


## Building and running

If you have [Go](https://golang.org/) installed you can download and build the exporter with:

    go get github.com/Tenzer/openweathermap-exporter

The following configuration flags are available:

    $ openweathermap-exporter -help
    Usage of openweathermap-exporter:
      -apikey string
            API key for OpenWeatherMap (required)
      -cache-ttl string
            TTL for API response cache (default "10m")
      -listen-address string
            Hostname and port to listen on (default "localhost:9755")
      -location-ids string
            Comma separated list of location IDs to fetch weather for (required)

You can look up the location IDs on the [OpenWeatherMap website](https://openweathermap.org/find).


## Note about the response cache

OpenWeatherMap [specifically say](https://openweathermap.org/appid#work) the weather data isn't updated more often than every 10 minutes,
so the API responses are cached for 10 minutes by default.
This allow Prometheus to scrape the exporter more often than without using up your API quota.
